---
id: "16594bef-f247-4e2e-8e40-55e30cfe4c4f"
name: "The Awaking"
status: "In Progress"
bookId: "a81b46e2-e279-435a-b04b-9120bca62d80"
chapterNumber: 1
updatedAt: 1777753785885
createdAt: 1777204080860
---

The ground beneath was covered in cold and slightly damp, glowing moss that was pressing against his face. As he started to regain consciousness, he saw the cave glowing in a bright green hue that reflected off the ceiling. The memories of what happened started flooding his mind. He had been surrounded by a group of moss goblins in level twelve of the Sunken Dungeon. He had been down here alone to gather glowing moss to sell at the market. Within a moment he realized there was no living thing around him. Where did the group of moss goblins go? Had I killed them before passing out?

Suddenly he heard a deep and commanding voice echo through his open ear and filled the dungeon floor with a rumble he felt through his other ear that had been pressed against the floor. "Awake Belkin. Awake my child." Shifting his arms and legs, he got off his stomach and onto his knees. Brushing the left over moss and dirt off of his shirt and pants. He grabbed a hand full of the cold glowing moss, feeling the texture between his fingers before letting it drop back down to the floor, leaving a slight residue behind that had a glimmer to it. He felt as if he hadn't touched anything in a lifetime. He looked around and confirmed that there were no moss goblins in sight, no other person, or even a rat. He let out a sigh of relief as he got on his feet.

As he stood there, the memories of what had happened continue to enter his thoughts. Moss goblins had been everywhere, surrounding him before the memory fades to black. He looked at his arms, legs, and body to check for any wounds that may not be causing him any pain. There were no cuts or scrapes that he could see, not even a drop of blood. Not on him or anywhere around him on the ground. Not even bodies of moss goblins.


What he did see was scarring that was unfamiliar to him on his forearms that looked like small daggers, a moss goblins favorite weapon, had cut deep. He noticed his shirt was torn as well. Peaking through the gaps, he noticed both his chest and stomach were scared, leading to more questions on what happened.

He checked the sheath on his side but the blade was missing. With no weapon on hand or in sight, he quickly fled towards the floors portal stone at the start of the floor. He remembered that he was on floor fourteen and the route to take without getting lost. He had been training in the Sunken Dungeon since he was a young man. As he ran through the dungeons winding, dimly lite tunnels, he couldn't help but notice the slight changes in the moss covered walls. As if it had grown by a foot within only a few days. 

Suddenly, a gnarly, deep throated noise echoed through the tunnel bringing him to a full stop. He quickly found a large, moss covered boulder to hide behind. Pressing his back against it, falling to the ground. The moss felt warm as if the fear had dropped his body temperature. He felt the ground quake below him as the creature walked toward him. He clenched the ground grasping handfuls of the glowing moss. Another gnarly growl echoed through the tunnel as it approached him. Fear shooting through his body, thoughts sprinted through his mind as if it were in a race with his beating heart. What do I do? Do I run back the way I came in hopes this thing can’t catch me? Hope whatever it is doesn’t notice me here? In that moment, the quaking floor from the weight of the approaching creature broke his thinking. It was seconds away from him and without thinking as if it were his natural instincts, he turned around and peeled the lengthy moss away from the face of the boulder and tucked himself between it.

Peaking from behind the moss he watched as a large , muscular, blue skin creature covered in moss passed by him. It was dragging what looked to be a make shift club from some sort of wooden beam, likely from a dungeon checkpoint. He realized it was a moss troll. He had only heard of them before in stories. What was it doing on level fourteen? They are normally found on levels thirty and below. Not a sound came from Belkin, not even a breath. The moss troll continued through the end of the tunnel where Belkin had just come from. After a few moments, the ground quit shaking and the groans of the moss troll quieted as it faded out into the distance. Belkin gasped for air as he realized he had been holding in his breath. 

He sat there letting his heart and mind slow back to normal. 

As he sat there still, hidden, and quiet, a mush mouse appeared from a crack in the wall.


Finally, as he turned the final corner towards the beginning of the floor, he saw the bright, purple glow of the portal stone. He had never been so happy to see a glowing rock. Though these were more than just glowing rocks. These were stones that the worlds mages had imbued with magic to teleport those who touched it back to the opening of the dungeon. Portal stones weren't at every level, but only the levels that were commonly traveled through. Being one of the four great dungeons, the sunken dungeon had one hundred levels. Which the portal stones only went to floor thirty-five and the deepest traveled had been to floor forty-six. Anything past thirty-five was fairly rare to travel too. Requiring larger parties of stronger, more advanced people, who travel with more supplies, and knowledge of the lower levels.

A sigh of relief left from under Belkin's breath as he had slowed from his sprint through the dungeon floor. As he approached the entrance, questions lingered how the changes he saw and the voice he had heard echo through his ears. He entered the room it also felt different, just like the dungeon halls. He couldn't place what had changed but he knew something was





